<pre>
  BIP: ??
  Layer: Consensus
  Title: Buried Deployments (P2SH)
  Author: John Newbery <john@chaincode.com>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/wiki/Comments:BIP-0092
  Status: Draft
  Type: Informational
  Created: 2018-01-22
  License: CC-0
</pre>


==Abstract==

Enforce BIP 16 consensus rules based on block height rather than block time.

==Background==

BIP 16 was deployed via a hardcoded flag day consensus rule change. Prior to the date of the consensus rule change being fixed, the miners signaled readiness for the change by placing the string "/P2SH/" in the scriptSig of the coinbase transaction txIn. The rule change was originally intended to come into effect on 15 Feb 2012, but due to lack of miner signaling, the activation date was pushed back to April 1st 2012. See [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0034.mediawiki The BIP 16 specification] for full details on the deployment method. The final activation method was via a hardcoded block time of 1333238400 (April 1st 2012).

Now that the chain has long since passed the block at which the P2SH consensus rule was acticated, we can (as a simplification) replace the trigger mechanism by caching the block height at which those consensus rules became enforced.

==Motivation==

Activating the BIP 16 consensus change based on block time has several disadvantages:

* The consensus change can be activated and later deactivated in the same chain (since block time is not necessarily monotonically increasing).
* It is less flexible for constructing test chains for testing P2SH and other soft fork activation

The flag day activation mechanism for code deployments was deprecated in favor of [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0034.mediawiki IsSuperMajority] deployments, and later by [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0009.mediawiki version bits] deployments.

BIP 34, BIP 65, and BIP 66 deployments were later 'buried' by [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0090.mediawiki BIP 90] with simple height checks. This simplification of the consensus rules reduced the technical debt associated with deployment of those consensus changes.

This BIP changes the BIP 16 activation method to also be a 'buried' deployment, activating at the block height that BIP 16 actually activated. For the mainnet chain, this is block height 173805.

==Considerations==

Just as for the buried BIP 34, BIP 65 and BIP 66 deployments, it is technically possible for this to be a non-backwards compatible change. For example, if an alternate chain were created in which block height 173805 was reached after April 1st 2012, and a block with height <173805 but block time after April 1st 2012 included an invalid P2SH spend, older software would see that chain as invalid, but newer software implementing this change would not.

See [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0090.mediawiki BIP 90] for justification of why this class of change is acceptable. As of January 2018, BIP 16 is buried by over 300,000 blocks.

==Specification==

The BIP 16 activation height is set to 173805.

To determine whether to enforce BIP 16 on a given block, we just compare the height of the block being validated with the stored activation heights:

    // Start enforcing P2SH (BIP16)
    if (pindex->nHeight >= consensusparams.BIP16Height) {
        flags |= SCRIPT_VERIFY_P2SH;
    }

See the implementation for additional details.

==Implementation==

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/18e071841e83044b47aa45c3e98c0796a407d445

==Acknowledgements==

Thanks to Russ Yanofsky, Marco Falke and Suhas Daftuar for suggestions and feedback.

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
